# Efficient Magic State Cultivation with Lattice Surgery

This repository contains the code used in the paper ["Efficient Magic State Cultivation with Lattice Surgery" (arXiv:2510.24615)](https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.24615).

The code used to generate the figures in the paper is available in the branch [`experiment-2025-sep`](https://github.com/yutakahirano/msc-ls/tree/experiment-2025-sep).

The implementation is written in **Python** and depends on:
- [Stim](https://github.com/quantumlib/Stim) (including Sinter)
- [PyMatching](https://github.com/oscarhiggott/PyMatching)
- SQLite3
- NumPy
- Matplotlib

---

### Directory Structure

The `src/` directory contains the main scripts:

- **`src/lattice_surgery_complementary_gap.py`**  
  The main script that implements the end-to-end distillation sequence.

- **`src/lattice_surgery_error_detection.py`**  
  Supports the error-detection use case.  
  Used to generate the data for *Fig. 9*, "Logical X and Z error probabilities introduced by the lattice surgery procedure," in the paper.

- **`src/extract_lookup_table.py`**  
  Extracts information from the lookup table generated by `lattice_surgery_complementary_gap.py`.  
  Used to generate the data for *Fig. 11*, "Coverage of the lookup table," in the paper.

---

### Version Requirements

- `src/lattice_surgery_error_detection.py` requires **Sinter ≤ 1.13** due to [a known bug](https://github.com/quantumlib/Stim/issues/887).  
- Other scripts require **Stim 1.15** or later.

---

### Typing

We add type annotations wherever possible and use **mypy** for type checking.

```bash
[yhirano@host msc-ls]$ mypy --ignore-missing-imports src/*.py
Success: no issues found in 17 source files
```

---

### Testing

Tests are written in `src/*_test.py` and can be run with the `-m unittest` command-line option:

```bash
[yhirano@host msc-ls]$ cd src
[yhirano@host src]$ python3 -m unittest *_test.py
.............................................................
----------------------------------------------------------------------
Ran 61 tests in 3.384s

OK
```

---

### Formatting

We use **pycodestyle** for code formatting.  
It should ideally be applied automatically (for example, via a Git commit hook), but this has not yet been set up.

```bash
[yhirano@host msc-ls]$ pycodestyle src/*.py
```
